[ Silence ]
[ Music ]
>> Lisa Garr: Hi.
I'm Lisa Garr, host
of Gaiam Inspirations.
Over half a million people
in the US are burdened
with Crohn's disease.
And my guest today
was one of them.
However, Mee McCormick
decided to fight back
when this debilitating disease
almost cost her her entire
quality of life and
left her near dead.
Well, today in her new
book "My Kitchen Cure",
she shares her amazing
discoveries
on the healing power of food.
And out of her plight, Mee also
became a TV cooking personality
and she's created a lifestyle
that will help anyone suffering
from any form of
autoimmune disease.
Welcome. Thank you
for being here.
>> Tracy McCormick: Thank you.
>> Lisa: Oh my goodness,
you have so much to share.
Such a huge message,
I'm so glad you're here.
>> McCormick: I-- you know I'm
so glad I'm here
too in many ways.
Thanks.
>> Lisa: Yes, absolutely.
So, all right, tell me a
little bit about how it was
when you were growing up.
Where did you grow up?
>> McCormick: I grow up
in-- well, I was born--
I'm Appalachian, so I was
born in Appalachian Mountains.
And then my mother
moved to Ohio and I grew
up in a little town
called Oberlin.
And Oberlin was a
super liberal--
is a super liberal arts
community and we move there
because she was--
became a single mother.
And there was a strong
women's community.
And we lived in a very poor part
of town predominantly
African-American part of town.
And it was just one of
those stories, you know,
late '70s early '80s, food
stamps, single parent.
She worked two jobs because
she had an autoimmune disease.
She had Crohn's disease.
>> Lisa: Oh, she had
the disease as well.
So, you're working
with her having this.
But did she have the
awareness at all about food?
What types of foods, I mean--
>> McCormick: She had
zero awareness of food.
She--
>> Lisa: Because she
didn't have a lot of choice.
>> McCormick: It
is the early '80s.
She was one of the
first people--
still in that wave of
first, sort of looking
at autoimmune disease.
I'm not even certain if
they knew it was autoimmune,
I'm not certain about anything
because I was just a little
girl watching her suffer.
She was in and out
of the Cleveland
Clinic and it was awful.
And she barely ate.
>> Lisa: And you have-- we
have a picture here of some
of the food that you
did eat at that time.
We can take a look at this--
>> McCormick: Yeah.
>> Lisa: It consisted of, what?
We had Spam--
>> McCormick: Spam, chipped ham,
ketchup, white bread, macaroni
and cheese, and I
had a dairy allergy.
Just minimal food, my
mother's family is Italian.
And so, we always had a
tomato sauce and pasta.
It was inexpensive and a pot
of sauce would go a week.
But we just didn't
have access to food
because we lived
in a food desert.
So, the combination of
no car, no bus system,
no public transportation and no
money and a sick mother who is
in and out of work
meant no food.
Food was an issue.
I was hungry most
of my childhood.
>> Lisa: Wow.
This is a picture here of what
your food cabinet looked like.
I think we have here, is this--
where did you get all these--
>> McCormick: That was-- what
happens is when you're a child
and a person who doesn't
have money and access to food
and then you grow up and
you earn your own money.
You-- and you get
food, what do you do?
You buy all the foods
that you couldn't have.
>> Lisa: Oh, OK.
>> McCormick: So, I became a
food hoarder like most people.
If I had food in my kitchen,
then we had food,
then we were OK.
And so, my husband
would complain and say,
"You buy all these food
and we don't even eat it
and we throw it away."
But I had to have it.
And I actually was obsessed
with processed food.
Because believe it or
not, my mother wasn't
such a processed food
person, we didn't have money.
So, processed food at
the time was expensive,
it's changed, now it's cheaper.
>> Lisa: Yeah, yeah.
>> McCormick: But we
didn't have money for it.
So, when I did have money
and earn my own money
and had a family of my own,
I became a food hoarder.
I just had anything in a box,
I shop by the picture, so.
[ Laugh ]
With all the pictures.
>> Lisa: Oh that looks
good, that's pretty.
>> McCormick: That's
the way I saw it.
>> Lisa: So, you
then took this--
all these foods that you're
eating and you got sicker
as an adult than
you were as a child?
>> McCormick: When I was
born, I'm an interesting case.
I was born and I had something
called an intussusception.
And that meant my intestines
were born sort-- were formed--
they collapsed on themselves.
And then I found out later
when I got the test results
from the labs as an
adult, I researched
and contacted the hospital
that I had an ulceration
which is said not to be
true that you can't be born
with an ulceration in your
intestines, but I was.
So, I had an operation the day I
was born to-- like a resection.
They removed part
of my intestines
and connected them again.
And I was a very sickly
child and I had a lot
of food sensitivities
and food allergies.
But we were too poor to
shop for different kids.
And so, I had to eat
what I was allergic to
and eat what I was sensitive to.
>> Lisa: So, OK.
So, you moved out of
that and you got married
and where did you live?
Where did you live
when you got married?
>> McCormick: I got
married and we lived
in Nashville, on a ranch.
>> Lisa: OK.
>> McCormick: We lived on a
cattle ranch which is amazing.
Yeah.
>> Lisa: In a way we'll
getting to that story
because in a way
it saved your life.
>> McCormick: Yeah.
>> Lisa: But in the
interim you moved
to the jungle, why
did you do that?
>> McCormick: Well,
what happened is we were
leaving in two places.
We were living in LA because
my husband had a project in LA
and I was a writer, and we
also lived in Nashville.
And then he finished his
project in LA and we said,
"We're not going to
keep living here."
>> Lisa: OK.
>> McCormick: And it was before
my daughter started school
and I really wanted
to write a book.
I had this dream all of
my life to write a book.
Maybe it wasn't even
just a dream as much
as it was a conversation
with myself
that I was going
to write a book.
So, I had a plan to write a
book called the "Adventures
of Princess Know It All".
And I-- we decided let's
have a grand adventure,
we'll go to the jungle,
we'll pack our babies.
My baby was one and
my other one was five.
And we'll-- Lee love to
surf and I love Mexico.
So, we rented a house
in Mexico closed up--
shut everything down
in LA and moved
to a little town called
Sayulita in the mouth
of the jungle, right
on the beach.
>> Lisa: And it was
beautiful there.
>> McCormick: It was amazing.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> McCormick: And
I took an office
and I got my work ethic back
and I started writing the
"Adventures of Princess
Know It All."
And I started a blog.
And that blog actually spun
me into writing for magazines
because the blog was picked up.
And I really was
on this adventure.
But then--
>> Lisa: Well, what
time-- what year was that?
>> McCormick: This
was six years ago.
>> Lisa: Six years ago.
>> McCormick: Everything
has been happening fast.
>> Lisa: My goodness.
>> McCormick: Life
changed in a minute.
>> Lisa: But then, OK, so we
have a picture here of you
in the jungle and you writing--
>> McCormick: Yeah.
>> Lisa: -- and enjoying
yourself.
But you were still at that
point very unaware that you were
as sick as you were, right?
>> McCormick: Well,
I would think that at
about 25 years old, I
suffered my first bowel--
partial bowel obstruction.
And what that means is
everything stops flowing
through the digestive tract.
Blood, nothing moves, they shut
down, there's inflammation.
It begins to close.
It's like having-- it's like a
heart attack in your intestines,
like, you can feel it.
>> Lisa: Wow.
>> McCormick: You can
feel everything stops.
>> Lisa: OK.
OK.
>> McCormick: And
so-- and you feel it
from the abdomen
down to your feet.
And I had my first
bowel obstruction at 25.
And went to the hospital and
they thought I had scar tissue
from the surgery at birth.
And that's what they
thought it was.
And then after that, I
started to get a burn
in my stomach, in my abdomen.
And that burn was radiated.
And so, really what it
was was just this common
digestive distress.
You know, had a-- I started
to form a relationship
with not feeling
well after I ate.
>> Lisa: Which you're talking
for most people right now.
>> McCormick: Most people right
now have gas bloating pressure.
>> Lisa: Burning.
>> McCormick: Discomfort,
burning all of the above.
And so, I was one
of those people.
And it just continued.
And then I would have
another partial obstruction,
go back to the hospital.
They pumped my stomach
through my nose.
It was awful, it was traumatic--
>> Lisa: Wow.
>> McCormick: And they
would say, "Well that's all,
you just had inflammation."
But no one ever really thought
that it could be anything else.
So, then when we were living in
the jungle, the radiating pain--
I mean I talk about
it and I remember it
and it's just a nightmare.
And it became horrible to the
point where I couldn't eat.
And the bowel obstructions
were happening more and more.
So, we came back to LA..
>> Lisa: Yeah
>> McCormick: For test.
And--
>> Lisa: Oh, you did.
OK.
>> McCormick: I did.
I left the jungle because I
had a terrible obstruction
and my husband was in the
United States, I was alone.
We lived in a heavily
narco area of the jungle.
Meaning the narcos were
fighting for control.
>> Lisa: Oh, that part
of Mexico is not safe.
>> McCormick: So, it wasn't
safe and I had an obstruction
at night on a Saturday.
I had a housekeeper that
would come on Mondays.
But it was Saturday and no one
in the jungle really knew
me to come and save me.
So, I was--
>> Lisa: So, no one-- oh,
so you stayed there
first for several days.
>> McCormick: In pain with two
babies and I couldn't move.
>> Lisa: Wow.
>> McCormick: So, I knew
I had to get out of there
or I was going to die there.
>> Lisa: Yes.
And so, when you came and
we have a picture here
of what you looked like at that
point and you were pretty thin.
>> McCormick: 89 pounds.
>> Lisa: 89 pounds.
>> Lisa: This is a picture
of your face at that point.
>> McCormick: Yeah.
>> Lisa: When was this taken?
>> McCormick: I think
that picture was taken
about believe it or not
maybe four years ago.
>> Lisa: Wow, wow, wow.
And look at you now.
>> McCormick: Yeah.
>> Lisa: Well, we're going to
get to that part but what was--
and something that you
pointed out for me here
in this picture was
the fear in your face.
And people go through this.
When you have digestive issues,
you don't know what to do,
there's no band aid
you can put on it.
>> McCormick: Well,
there is no band aid
and you can't see
it from the outside.
>> Lisa: Right.
>> McCormick: And it's
with any invisible disease,
any type of chronic disease.
>> Lisa: True.
>> McCormick: And the
fear that I had was
because my mother died at 39.
And I was devastated
by her loss.
>> Lisa: Oh yeah.
>> McCormick: My mom
was an amazing person.
And when she died,
it left a hole
in my heart as a young girl.
And when I got as sick as
her, I thought, "Oh no,
I'm going to leave my girls."
>> Lisa: OK.
>> McCormick: And that fear,
you know, getting well,
the next phase of my
life from getting well.
Before I could even begin to
get well, I had to sort of move
that blanket of black
butterfly that surround me.
I mean I was swarmed
with the fear of death.
>> Lisa: Constantly.
>> McCormick: Constantly,
constantly.
I mean it just I would fall
into tears in a conversation
because I just knew
I was leaving.
And I was going to leave them.
And it because I had
experienced that type of loss,
it shook me to my core.
>> Lisa: So, how did
you get out of that?
How did you--
>> McCormick: I-- well, when
I embarked on my food journey,
I also started working with
a cabalistic acupuncturist
who happen to pray a lot.
And he would put needles in
me and he would talk to me.
And he would talk to me each--
he was a very interesting
acupuncturist
because each needle represented
for me like a past experience.
Not a past life as in before
this life but a past life
within this life, so
something that it happened.
>> Lisa: In this life.
Right.
>> McCormick: And his
needles would go in,
and I would have a memory.
I would have a memory
of my father leaving.
A memory of not being
good enough as a teenager.
A memory of an abusive
relationship.
A memory of when I was an
abusive person in my life
because we've been
abusive at some point.
And--
>> Lisa: And this is normal step
that people go through
a lifetime--
>> McCormick: Regular steps,
nothing like-- traumatic.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> McCormick: Just, you know,
when I wasn't as positive--
>> Lisa: Kind person.
>> McCormick: -- as a person.
>> Lisa: Yeah
>> McCormick: -- or
kind as I could be.
And so, each needle was attached
to a judgment of
my self or fear.
And overtime, I would
lay on his table
and I would just fall
sleep into these memories.
>> Lisa: Is that
where you started to--
what you really think
contributed to the fire
in the belly, the gut,
the inflammation one
of these negative
memories and thoughts
that you hold on
to unconsciously?
>> McCormick: Yeah, I think
that they become the burdens--
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> McCormick: -- that we carry.
>> McCormick: And our--
you know, our root of our
body is our intestines.
And if the root of the--
of a tree, the trees
roots are their core.
And if a tree's roots
are poisoned
or toxic then the
tree goes down.
It's the same thing.
And so, you know, we really
pack around all of our sadness.
And I packed it and held it
tightly in my intestines.
And-- so that was--
I've actually really talked
about it this way before.
>> Lisa: It makes so
much sense though.
>> McCormick: I've
never talk about him,
his name is Gil Ben-Ami,
he's in Nashville.
And it means happy son
of my people in Hebrew.
>> Lisa: Wow.
That was his name?
>> McCormick: Yeah,
his name is Gil.
He's still there.
>> Lisa: But it-- the act
of what you went through was
so important because they
led you to solutions.
>> McCormick: Yeah.
>> Lisa: I mean that
was [inaudible].
>> McCormick: I mean that was
my first action of like what was
that really did is I got
to see that being a child
of a sick parent or
an unwell person,
it physically affects you.
Children are deeply
affected by all of the adults
that are suffering
chronic disease.
And I had a lot of things
I knew that hurt me.
The loss of my father, the
loss of this, the heartache
over relationships,
but I had never looked
at my mother's suffering and
how it influenced my fears
in my future.
Until that moment on
that man's stable.
>> Lisa: And so, when you
started to move all of that,
and started to release all
that which I'm sure took--
>> McCormick: Yeah.
Actually it's pretty
fast with him.
Because I would go
three times a week
because the other side
effect of acupuncture
and healing the digestive
tract is it helps with pain.
>> Lisa: Oh.
>> McCormick: So, I
would have less pain.
And I would just
get on his table.
When I would go with
the memories
and they had the therapist--
>> Lisa: Well, yeah.
>> McCormick: Because
I had to talk about it.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> McCormick: I was like,
I have to find somebody
to help me process who I've been
so that I can clean it all up.
You know, I want to be my
next greatest version on me--
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> McCormick: -- and how
I'm going to clean that up?
>> Lisa: That's what leaders do.
Now you moved yourself
into finding whole
foods, and finding--
>> McCormick: Yeah.
>> Lisa: -- foods that actually
started to heal your body.
How did you get to these foods?
>> McCormick: So, like sort of
all happened at the same time.
>> Lisa: OK
>> McCormick: I meet Gil, I
left the jungle because we--
the doctors had found a
hole in my small intestine.
And it was the total
circumference and it meant
that I have been hemorrhaging
for many years slowly.
I was completely anemic, I
was on Iron transfusions.
We were-- they were
searching me for cancer.
And they couldn't find any.
And the last chance was to
do a biopsy of the whole.
But I wasn't well enough
to undergo that procedure.
And so, at the same time,
I was back in Nashville,
I was with doctors.
I was seeing the Acupuncturist
because I believe in supporting.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> McCormick: You know,
you got to do it both.
You got to do it all.
You can't make one right
and the other wrong.
You got to work as a team.
>> Lisa: That's great point.
Great point.
>> McCormick: Yeah.
And then, I connected to
woman name Virginia Harper
who is in Nashville.
Half the year lives in Spain.
I have found a book
in Mexico online.
But you can't get
mail on the jungle.
And the book that I found online
was about this woman who lived
in Maine, who would
heal their body.
Well, a good friend
of mine in Nashville,
Maryalice Kirchdoerffer who
is a body alignment person
and therapist said, "You
should go see Virginia Harper,
she has a clinic and she helps
people get well with food."
And so, I came into her
clinic, and there was this book
that I'd found in
the jungle online.
But she didn't live in
Maine, she lived in Spain.
[ Laughter ]
>> Lisa: But you found the book
and you found your
way towards foods.
>> McCormick: I did.
Yeah.
>> Lisa: And this is-- this is
a picture here that you have
of all the different diets
that you had tried, right?
>> McCormick: Yeah.
>> Lisa: You went
through all these.
>> McCormick: Oh yeah.
I started out with
Virginia Harper
who is predominantly a
macrobiotic counselor.
>> Lisa: OK.
>> McCormick: It
taught me the basics.
It was a beautiful place to
start because it's old school--
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> McCormick: --
simple, simple cooking.
>> Lisa: Right.
>> McCormick: And it's and
you have-- you get skilled.
I mean you really
learn how to cook--
>> Lisa: That where you
got all your skills, OK.
>> McCormick: I got
main skills there,
but then that wasn't
enough for me.
I wanted to know what
the Maker's Diet was,
what the Gerson diet was.
I wanted to understand
all of the-- I wanted to--
I was looking for my thread.
I needed to find the
string that connected it all
because there isn't just
one way to wellness.
And one way isn't going
to keep you well either.
>> Lisa: What is
the thread then?
>> McCormick: The
thread is real food.
>> Lisa: Real food.
OK, and that's what you--
>> McCormick: Unadulterated
real food.
No chemicals--
>> Lisa: Whole food.
>> McCormick: Whole food.
Food in its whole forms,
simply prepared, no chemicals,
no additives, no
preservatives in rotation.
You must rotate your food.
If you do not rotate your
food, you'll create an excess.
And in that excess is
where the imbalance lies.
And the-- and the illness
will just creep back in
or a new one will find its way.
>> Lisa: So, you've obviously
you've educated yourself a lot.
About food and about
the body as well--
>> McCormick: Yeah.
>> Lisa: -- and then we have a
side here that you put together
about knowing your intestines--
>> McCormick: Yeah.
>> Lisa: Did you learn
everything about--
I think that's a great idea.
>> McCormick: Oh I think
it's a great idea too.
>> Lisa: We have them,
we all have intestines.
>> McCormick: Yeah and
it's not taught in school.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> McCormick: And you go
to gastroenterologist,
and they don't teach
you about them.
And so, suddenly this life
[inaudible] and I felt, wow,
I have a wound in my intestine.
And the only thing that's
touching it is food.
Why can't the food
become medicine?
Why wouldn't I-- if you have a
whole or scrape on your knee,
what do you would put on it?
You put medicine on it.
You don't add unhealthy
bacteria, do you?
>> Lisa: Right, right, right.
>> McCormick: So, if
you have a weakening
in your digestive tract, and
you don't heal it properly,
then what's going to happen?
Your entire-- again that's your
root, that's your tree's root,
that's your body's root if
the body is going to go down.
>> Lisa: So, you learned about
your intestine, I think that's--
>> McCormick: I was--
and I wrote about it,
it's like know thy intestines.
If you have any sort of
health issues or imbalances,
understand that the only
way to bring balance is
in the small intestine because
that's where the villi are
that grab the nutrition,
that then funnel it
into the main vein, into the
liver, and into the blood.
And if those intestines
are not working,
you're never going to get well.
No matter how many
pills you take.
>> Lisa: But what about those
bad habits, those comfort foods,
those things that you need to--
I mean did that help you
to educate yourself
about the foods and--
>> McCormick: Yeah.
>> Lisa: -- intestines in
order to kick those bad habits?
>> McCormick: You know, I
think that's the whole thing.
I think that the more
that you go out there
and you seek information.
You know, my kitchen
cure is called
that because it was
my kitchen cure.
And it was how I got well.
But it's to inspire people
to find their own cure--
>> Lisa: That they
can do it, yeah.
>> McCormick: --
like ask questions.
Try things, see what
works in your body,
what doesn't work in your body.
And the more information
you have then you have a
consciousness going on.
And you're going
to make choices,
and then it's your choice.
That is a big deal
because we want on-- we--
our food stuff is
mega, mega, mega, mega,
mega, situation for us.
We have a situation
with our food
because we're super
sensitive to it.
You know, we're full of
our own self judgments,
we judge ourselves
what we feed ourselves,
what we feed our children,
what's in our refrigerator--
>> Lisa: We do have a lot of--
>> McCormick: -- what we eat.
>> Lisa: We have a lot of
conversation around food
in our own heads, don't we?
Yeah.
>> McCormick: I own drug and
alcohol treatment centers
and eating disorder clinics.
And the thing
about understanding how people
change, is how I changed.
I watched-- I have
watched people
for 12 years change their lives.
And shift their addictions and
change the story in their mind
about why they're not well
or why they do what they do.
>> Lisa: I see.
>> McCormick: And I had to
apply that to my own life.
So, the food conversation
is a sensitive one.
And if we make foods bad,
then we're never going to--
we're not going to
influence anyone.
>> Lisa: So, you talk
about kicking those
habits in this other slide.
You talk about getting the
emotional support around it.
I didn't know that you-- those--
>> McCormick: Yeah.
>> Lisa: -- the food
clinics and-- the--
>> McCormick: Yeah.
>> Lisa: -- support centers.
Are they the same
things as the kitchens?
>> McCormick: No,
they're different.
They're-- we own
the Recovery Ranch.
Well, my husband started
the Recovery Ranch on--
in Nashville.
>> Lisa: Oh.
>> McCormick: And then we have
the Integrated Life Center
in Nashville and their
holistic approaches to drug
and alcohol addiction
and eating disorders.
And so--
>> Lisa: Healing addiction
through food as well.
>> McCormick: And
healing addiction
through food is gigantic.
>> Lisa: And of course
emotional addiction--
I mean healing through
emotions as well--
>> McCormick: Well, it
all is connected, right?
>> Lisa: Yes, absolutely.
>> McCormick: It's all one.
>> Lisa: All right, so
you're steps to wellness.
And you kind of have five steps
here that you've laid out for us
in terms of steps to wellness.
Yes. OK.
>> McCormick: First thing you
want to do is you want to start
to pay attention to what
are your food sensitivities.
>> Lisa: OK.
>> McCormick: And
the big things--
the first thing to do
is to pay attention
to what are you eating
all of the time.
So, you have to become
mindful of your food, you know.
You have to pay attention what
am I eating, what am I craving--
>> Lisa: So, you're saying--
>> McCormick: -- how many
times should I eat it.
>> Lisa: Food diary?
>> McCormick: Food
diary is great.
>> Lisa: OK.
>> McCormick: And even
the simple like, oh,
I ate those corn
chips yesterday.
Oh, I have those corn
chips three days in a row.
Oh, you know, what am I doing?
>> Lisa: OK.
>> McCormick: Just the
mindful, what am I feeding me,
and what is my child
eating everyday.
>> Lisa: Yeah, That's
another huge part of it.
>> McCormick: A food journal
for your kids is a great idea.
>> Lisa: For them to do.
>> McCormick: Now for
them to do, for you to do.
And you can do it with them.
>> Lisa: And make it fun.
So, it doesn't set up--
>> McCormick: Yeah--
>> Lisa: -- the whole addiction.
>> McCormick: -- you
can make a calendar
that says, Monday, we ate this.
And then the-- once you start
doing it, by the second week,
they go "Oh mama, we haven't
had this since last week."
That-- you don't think it sets
a-- you do it fun though, right?
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> McCormick: You
don't make it--
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> McCormick: Or
nothing can be made bad,
and nothing can be
made restrictive.
It's not about what
you can't have.
It's about all the
things you can't have.
>> Lisa: You can have, right.
Yeah, that's very important.
>> McCormick: Changing the
can't to can is gigantic.
>> Lisa: I notice
that when I switch
to the gluten-free lifestyle.
>> McCormick: Yeah.
>> Lisa: It would--
it started of for me,
all that I couldn't eat and
all the things that I didn't--
then I'll move to all of the
flowers that were as substitute
for those things and
then I just let it go
and just ate the whole foods.
>> McCormick: Yeah.
>> Lisa: Because you can
get as much carbohydrates
from a sweet potato, then
you can with an almond,
tapioca flower piece of bread.
>> McCormick: And then--
and your not going to get the
beta-carotene and the vitamin C.
>> Lisa: Right, in bread right.
>> McCormick: In the bread.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> McCormick: And so
that's what we do.
We try to replace the old
way that we were eating
with different ingredients.
But it's really about a
completely new relationship
with food.
>> Lisa: So, OK.
So, the sensitivity--
the five steps was
to check your food
sensitivities, then also to--
this is again on the slide.
The first steps to wellness.
And find out exactly what is
it that you're allergic too.
And how do you that?
>> McCormick: Well, you
have to stop completely.
>> Lisa: OK.
>> McCormick: So, you've
identify your excesses.
So, now you want to pay
attention and just figure
out how do you feel when you
get off of those excesses.
So, dairy, sugar
of course, it's--
that's just an excess that we
all have to be mindful off.
I have to be mindful of it
for the rest of my life.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> McCormick: But you want
to pay attention to
things like wheat.
So, the big things you
stop the big things.
You pay attention to you
probably had too much wheat,
too much dairy, or
too much [inaudible]--
>> Lisa: OK.
>> McCormick: And
too much sugar.
So, you get rid-- you
have to be off of them
of them for a period of time.
And then you introduce--
I mean not a week,
and not two weeks,
like three months--
>> Lisa: Oh.
>> McCormick: --
get off of them.
And see--
>> Lisa: OK.
>> McCormick: -- how you feel.
>> Lisa: OK, because that's
how long it takes the body
to kind of repair.
>> McCormick: Yeah, you got
to get it out of your body.
And the body has to come back.
And then you can eat it, and
then you can see what happens.
>> Lisa: See if the body
has an instant reaction.
>> McCormick: So, you're
really forming a mindfulness
with your body what it feels
like, which is something,
you know, that's
like a whole deal.
What do I fell like when I eat?
Because we eat foods and we
get unconscious to the pain.
>> McCormick: Yeah, we get
completely unconscious,
we don't realize
that that headache is
because we just had that soy.
>> Lisa: Or that
foggy thinking--
>> McCormick: Yeah.
>> Lisa: -- or the
irritability and all that stuff.
>> McCormick: Yeah.
Like now, I can digest wheat.
But if I eat wheat, I
can get super tired.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
And then you pay for it later.
>> McCormick: I'm just so tired.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
It's not worth it.
So, it's about food mindfulness.
>> McCormick: Mindfulness.
>> Lisa: Which you did you
put together a great thing
about what are you craving,
what types of things
do you use your--
and I love the slide
that you have here,
because you have the angel
and the devil kind of,
you know, should I eat this?
It's not good for me.
We go back, we all
have that dialogue.
>> McCormick: Yeah,
because it's the--
its like am I failing
because, oh no,
suddenly now I just ate that.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> McCormick: And yes,
I eat French fries.
And when my kids they're not
in my house and we go out
and they're at a birthday
party, they eat what's
at the birthday party.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> McCormick: Unless it's
just, you know, ridiculous.
>> Lisa: Some of
it is ridiculous.
>> McCormick: It's
really ridiculous.
>> Lisa: All right.
So, let's talk about
repair here.
So, you're talking about
eating your probiotics.
>> McCormick: Yes.
>> Lisa: And I noticed
that you have a sample here
of what a cultured
food is and a couple
of different probiotic
ideas here.
>> McCormick: Yeah.
This is really great.
This is chickpeas, soy-free
miso, and this is a probiotic
and it comes in a paste form.
And you dilute it in water and
then you add it in to any soup,
any sauce, you don't
even have to cook it,
you don't add it until the end.
And then you're eating
your probiotics.
And so, we have some
type of miso in our food,
maybe three times a week.
>> Lisa: So, but miso is
soy bean paste, unless--
>> McCormick: But
this one is not soy.
>> Lisa: -- you get that.
>> McCormick: Unless
you get that.
And that's chickpeas soy-free.
>> Lisa: OK.
>> McCormick: And
then you have--
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> McCormick: You
have sauerkraut,
and this is a red
cabbage sauerkraut
with Himalayan sea salt.
And Himalayan sea salt
aids in digestion.
>> Lisa: So, that's all that is.
It's just sauerkraut
and sea salt?
>> McCormick: It's fermented.
So, it means it's
made at the way
that sauerkraut was
made back in the day.
>> Lisa: Was supposed
to be made.
>> McCormick: We
always ate with--
the thought of aiding
in digestion.
Ancestral cultures
had a relationship
with their food and
their bodies.
They knew if I ate
that, I feel this way.
So, I'm going to eat this
to help me feel that way.
So, this is a digestive enzyme.
And as we get older we--
our body creates less
and less enzymes.
So, know thy intestines,
starts on the mouth,
you start to salivate,
you know, you're--
you bring up all
your saliva comes up,
you start to smell food, you
are beginning to create enzymes.
Then you chew the food in
your mouth, you're supposed
to chew like 100 times.
>> Lisa: That's that
whole thing don't talk
with food in your mouth?
>> McCormick: Well, A,
we don't want to see it.
But B, you want to create
more enzymes so that
when the food gets
to the stomach,
the stomach can break it down.
And then when it gets
to the small intestine
it can be absorbed.
>> Lisa: Interesting.
>> McCormick: So,
there's a whole situation.
Is that like a process
to get into eating?
>> Lisa: Is that why protein
shakes and so forth aren't great
for enzyme production
because you don't chew them,
you drink them?
>> McCormick: I don't know,
that's a brilliant question.
>> Lisa: Could be, but unless
you put something in it
that you can chew on like
nuts or something in it.
So, it helps you--
>> McCormick: Yeah.
>> Lisa: All right, so this--
I have a question about the
whole cultured food idea.
>> McCormick: Yeah, yeah.
>> Lisa: Is that I
view them personally
as complicated, but
this looks easy.
>> McCormick: They're
not complicated,
I mean the ingredients are
salt, water and cabbage.
>> Lisa: You don't
have a starter culture
and all that stuff?
>> McCormick: No, you can make
this your own self, you know,
you just do it, it's not hard.
>> Lisa: And then what
do you eat that with?
>> McCormick: And then I--
like this morning I made as
cilantro omelet with tons
of cilantro because cilantro
is a digestive aid by the way.
And what else did I put in
there, a little vegenaise
to make my eggs go pop.
>> Lisa: OK.
>> McCormick: Because
I don't use milk.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> McCormick: And then I put
a scoop of that on top of it
and I eat-- I love
eggs and sauerkraut.
And my little girl
eats it on the side,
we eat it all the time.
>> Lisa: Well, that's
sounds great.
>> McCormick: It's fantastic.
>> Lisa: It's-- I
mean Japanese--
>> McCormick: Cooking
egg reuben.
>> Lisa: Yeah, that's great.
>> McCormick: It's an egg
reuben, it's an egg reuben.
Fried egg reuben.
>> Lisa: See I could see
why you have a cookbook now.
>> McCormick: Yeah.
>> Lisa: All right.
OK, so now, in addition
to taking all of this
and putting it all together.
>> McCormick: Yeah.
>> Lisa: You have other
ideas around what it means
to put together cultured
foods and fermented foods
and natural probiotics
into your diet.
What is this lovely thing?
>> McCormick: OK.
Well, that is Kudzu root.
So, Kudzu is a plant because
you plant that grows wild
and crazy everywhere
in the South.
But what it is is you
use it as a starch.
So, whenever you're going
to make a roux or you want
to make slurry and you
want to thicken your food,
or you want to thicken your
soup you will use cornstarch.
>> Lisa: Oh, OK.
>> McCormick: And what
does cornstarch do for you?
Nothing. But if you use Kudzu
root it heals the lining
of the digestive track and
it calms the nervous system.
You have more nerves in your
intestines than in anywhere--
than in your mind,
your brain, your mind.
>> Lisa: So, this can
thicken a soup, it can--
>> McCormick: It's a thickener.
>> Lisa: It's a thickener, you--
>> McCormick: But it's
a calmer, it's calming
to the digestive tract and
I used it like a bandage.
So, it calms the nervous system.
>> Lisa: What else
do you put it in?
>> McCormick: I put it in
soups, I put it in sauces,
I make an apple Kudzu drink
which is just organic
apple juice heated up,
you dilute that in
cold water first--
>> Lisa: OK.
>> McCormick: --
and then you add it
in to your hot apple juice--
>> Lisa: OK.
>> McCormick: -- and it
taste like apple pie.
It's great for headaches,
migraines, fevers,
cold sores, herpes outbreaks.
It calms your nervous system.
And it's fantastic for
the digestive tract.
And I really believe
wholeheartedly
that was key to my wellness.
That was like a band
aid all the way through.
>> Lisa: Did you drink
that all the time?
>> McCormick: Oh
yeah, and I still do.
Instead of hot chocolate
we have that in our house.
>> Lisa: What a great idea.
So, you put this in a
room temperature water
so that the heat doesn't--
>> McCormick: Cold
water to dilute--
>> Lisa: OK.
>> McCormick: --
to break it down.
And then you add it to something
hot to make it thicken.
>> Lisa: Brilliant.
All right.
And now you also have a slide
here of sea vegetables--
>> McCormick: Yeah.
>> Lisa: -- now sea
vegetables are also amazing
for the digestive tract, right?
>> McCormick: They're great
for the digestive tract
and their packed
with trace minerals.
And so, they're some
of the last vegetables
that still have trace minerals
because their soil has been
completely over worked.
And so, they're also full of
iodine which is anti fungal,
great for the thyroid.
We don't have enough iodine
in our diets because we go
on these kicks where
we're like, oh,
we're not going to
have any salt now.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> McCormick: But we shouldn't
have any processed food salts
but we should have
salts with iodine,
they naturally have
iodine in it.
And iodine--
>> Lisa: OK
>> McCormick: And sea-- and
iodine neutralizes radiation.
And we live in a culture that's
inundated with radiation.
>> Lisa: Yes.
>> McCormick: I mean
every single day we're
on the phone, we're
being radiated.
>> Lisa: So, dulse is something
is something that I love.
It's--
>> McCormick: You like dulse.
>> Lisa: Do you like dulse?
>> McCormick: I like
dulse and I make sure
that I change them all.
I use-- so rotation, I use
hijiki and kombu the most.
I use wakame for hormones
and wakame in the miso soup.
And so, if you're trying--
like you're cycle is coming up
and you're trying
to stay balanced,
you want to use wakame.
They each have-- because
they have a different
mineral content.
>> Lisa: Now, where do
you find these things?
Do you have to go to a
specific Asian market?
>> McCormick: You can
go to an Asian market,
you can go to a health food
store, you can go to whole foods
and you can order them online.
>> Lisa: So, its'
called wakame--
>> McCormick: Wakame,
hijiki and kombu.
Those are the three
that I use the most.
>> Lisa: OK.
>> McCormick: And I like dulse.
>> Lisa: And then
you cook with these?
>> McCormick: Yeah.
>> Lisa: In anything that
you're making fishes or--
>> McCormick: Oatmeal.
I soak my oatmeal overnight.
If you're having any kind
of digestive distress,
you want to soak your
grains overnight.
You put a little piece and
it hydrates in the water.
And then you can remove
it or you can cook it
and it adds trace minerals.
And it helps break down the
hard to digest carbohydrates.
>> Lisa: Wow.
>> McCormick: And either
you cook it with your beans.
It's also a flavor
enhancer like a bay leaf.
And you can take it out or
you can dice it and eat it.
What else do I do?
I made bean chili
and I add in the--
I use hijiki and then
in the end I add miso.
>> Lisa: It's fantastic.
It's amazing--
>> McCormick: My
kids don't even--
they don't even think about it.
>> Lisa: If you ever
have any digestive issues
or food poisoning--
>> McCormick: Anything.
>> Lisa: -- or stomach
flu or anything.
These are the-- I mean
this is a great suggestion.
>> McCormick: Well, the
kudzu, if you get, you know,
a lot of shidoobee action,
then you will have to make
that apple kudzu because
you want to like to look
at the more kudzu you use
then it's going to stop it up.
>> Lisa: OK.
>> McCormick: But if you
have too much situation,
then you want to use less
kudzu and not as thick.
>>Lisa: OK, interesting,
interesting.
We have here a picture of
your miso soup recipe which--
>> McCormick: Oh, yeah.
That was the first
thing I learned to make.
And I'm proud of it.
>> Lisa: Make your own miso?
>> McCormick: Because I
was totally intimated, I--
you know, I always chip ham and
ketchup white bread sandwich.
I was like, I will
make miso soup now?
Are you kidding?
>> Lisa: I know that's why
I have-- I kind of say.
>> McCormick: So, intimidating.
But, it's not.
It's just green onion which has
more vitamin C than an orange.
Its C vegetable so any type
you want to put in there,
you can even use the arame.
I forgot to mention
arame as a seaweed.
>> Lisa: OK.
>> McCormick: And your
miso and I put carrots
and shiitake or maitake.
And those mushrooms are powerful
because they're antiviral.
And the maitake has
interferon in it.
Interferon is what's
in chemotherapy
so why aren't we eating--
>> Lisa: Wow.
>> McCormick: -- preventatively.
So, miso soup, I think
it's a 50 percent reduction
in breast cancer when you--
with people that eat miso.
And the Japanese
healed their culture
after the World War II
with wakame and miso.
>> Lisa: Interesting.
Now, can you do all
these on a budget?
Is this expensive?
>> McCormick: Super cheap
because you're going
to buy the miso and you're not
going to use it all in one day.
>> Lisa: Right.
>> McCormick: You're
going to use a teaspoon,
a teaspoon in each pot.
>> Lisa: Does it last for a
while in those containers?
>> McCormick: Last a long
time, it's fermented.
It can stay in your
fridge for months.
>> Lisa: Wow.
>> McCormick: And you're
going to buy a few ingredients
but then you're going
to cook simply.
You're going to cook the
way we cooked 100 years ago.
And the way that people cook
in third world countries.
They eat grains,
they eat legumes,
they eat vegetables,
plant-based.
And your meat is just there
to be in a-- an enhancer.
>> Lisa: Now, the legumes
and the-- and the beans
>> McCormick: Yeah.
>> Lisa: Do you pre soak these?
>> McCormick: I pre
soak always my legumes.
>> Lisa: The night before, the--
>> McCormick: Always, all
beans the night before.
>> Lisa: Why is that?
>> McCormick: Lentils for
like 15 minutes, I rinse them
because they're easy
because you want them to--
you want them to cook faster.
And you want them to
be more digestible.
So, the longer they
sit, the easier they are
to digest and then be absorbed.
>> Lisa: So, this is
something that that will help
with the gassiness that
the beans usually--
>> McCormick: Absolutely.
>> Lisa: -- caused.
>> Lisa: If you kind
of predigest them.
>> McCormick: Yeah, absolutely.
>> Lisa: In the water.
>> McCormick: Yeah, you-- and
that's what people always did.
I mean people even soak their
flowers before they use them
at times.
>> Lisa: Wow, interesting.
>> McCormick: Yeah.
>> Lisa: So, all of these works
if you have little
time and little money.
>> McCormick: Well, it really
works if you have little time
because what it does is it
helps you get organized.
Now, I'm organized, I
know on Sunday night,
what I need to do for Monday.
So, I will soak the
beans on Sunday night.
And then I know Monday when
I either get up before I go
to work or when I get home,
that I put my pot of beans on.
Then we come home and I
build a meal around my beans.
>> Lisa: You're very organized.
Now, what about shopping online
or what do you know to look
for I mean how do you do that?
Do you--
>> McCormick: I shop online
and I put in my book a list
of websites you can shop at--
>> Lisa: Oh, great.
>> McCormick: -- ingredients,
everything for your kitchen,
where to get them,
the best prices
because that was really
intimidating to me.
I mean I was the most
intimated person ever.
And I really wanted
to put together a book
that someone could
take that was like me
and say, "Oh, I got this.
This is easy."
Yeah, I mean as I'm
thinking about it,
I'm not a great cook at all.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
And so, would you
recommend to someone going in
and just clearing out their
entire refrigerator and starting
over again, all those--
old bottles of ketchup and
all of that jelly and--
>> McCormick: I mean in an ideal
world that would be fantastic.
If you can do that and you
can just wipe it all out
and you can start over and
go buy everything new, great.
>> Lisa: Would you
do bulk containers
>> McCormick: I do use
glass jars, like this jar
that sauerkraut is in.
I would rinse in out and then
I would store my sea vegetables
in it or my grain
and I reuse jars.
And I buy glass jars if I
don't have any mason jars are
fantastic, you can get
them at flea markets.
And then you store like that
and you don't buy in excess.
>> Lisa: OK
>> McCormick: You're going
to start shopping minimally.
You're going to buy three
vegetables at the farmers market
for three meals on Sunday.
And then once you cook those,
go to the market on Thursday
on your way home and pick up
two more rounds of vegetables.
And then you build
your meals around--
you build around
plant-based eating
>> Lisa: OK.
All right now, let's
talk about kid's foods
>> McCormick: Yeah.
I want to go there
>> Lisa: Yeah.
I mean the kids lunch programs
in the schools completely suck.
>> McCormick: Oh man.
There's a situation
with the kids food
and it really breaks my heart
>> Lisa: It does
>> McCormick: Because when did
we come up with the concept
of kids food, that was
when it all fell apart.
What is kid's food?
Why did they now
have a whole genre?
>> Lisa: Why is it different?
>> McCormick: Why-- what is
going on with the kid's menu?
And you know what it is?
Its limited eating,
it's catering to a child
that doesn't have education and
it's not empowering to them.
And so, I don't believe in
kid's food, I don't believe
in hiding things in foods
either because what is that?
Well, if you're hiding
in the food
and then suddenly
they're 13 or 21--
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> McCormick: -- or 25 or 35.
>> Lisa: Right.
>> McCormick: They don't
want to eat it when it's
in its natural form
because they never knew
that they ate it anyways.
So, you're really
creating a monster
and you're not doing
them any favor.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> McCormick: It's the old
school, this is what I cook,
this is what we're
having, I don't make a war.
I don't believe in battles.
And I'm not reactive to them.
Why would you get mad at them?
>> Lisa: Well, right
but they say, well,
the kids will only pasta
and macaroni and cheese.
They won't eat the
spinach and the broccoli
if I put it around their plate
>> McCormick: Right, well,
that's all that you've
given them.
So, first of all, you have
to take responsibility.
You got to own your
parenting shoes
and you got to say,
I'm the mama.
They don't have ATM card.
They don't have a car.
They don't drive and they
don't have any education.
So, why are they picking
what they're going to eat.
And so, you have to buck up,
you got to get in your kitchen.
You first have to eat and cook
and eat this way for you first
>> Lisa: Right, and then--
>> McCormick: Then once
you get good enough at it.
Start feeding them.
Start making the change.
Put a little on the plate and
you have to be consistent.
So, with color greens--
I love colors but my youngest
daughter wasn't having any part.
But I didn't make a war.
I'd put a little bit on
her plate twice a week.
Every week, twice a week, the
sauerkraut now they inhale it.
Every week on their plate,
there was sauerkraut.
They started to see it.
They formed a relationship
with it.
You have to take a bite.
You have to take one bite.
>> Lisa: That old school rule.
>> McCormick: That
they just try it.
They finally just tried it.
>> Lisa: Yeah, just
try it, try it, try it.
I remember the day that Lola
[assumed spelling] was like,
"Mama, are we going
to have color green?
I was like-- and I thought
it worked, it worked.
>> McCormick: Yeah.
>> Lisa: I'm a winner.
>> McCormick: That's good.
>> Lisa: Do you have
any good suggestions
for lunch boxes or
kid's lunch boxes?
>> McCormick: I do, left over's
>> Lisa: That's a
good suggestion
>> McCormick: And what
is that make you do?
It makes you cook.
>> Lisa: You got a point there.
Yes.
>> McCormick: You save
money, you cook dinner.
So, on Monday, we'll-- maybe I
do make them chicken fingers--
my version.
It's a minor-- its
organic chicken,
its almond meal encrusted.
I'll make them on Friday.
That's their treat dinner
and maybe I'll do, you know,
some kind of steamed broccolis.
Steamed broccoli the next
day is fantastic cold.
>> Lisa: And you put
them on lunch box?
>> McCormick: I put in the
lunch containers, Yeah.
>> Lisa: Yeah
>> McCormick: And
then they have that.
And then they have fruit.
They're good
>> Lisa: Yeah
>> McCormick: So, leftovers
are the beans, the grains,
turned into burritos,
rice is fantastic.
Heat it up in the morning,
put it in a thermos.
Soups are wonderful
on a thermos.
Salads are super easy.
So, you do kale salad
or spinach salad.
And I take a carrot and I
put it in a food processor
and I pulse it one time and I
have crumbled carrots on spinach
with the home made
dressing in a container.
>>Lisa: Wow.
>> McCormick: Real.
>> Lisa: That's great.
>> McCormick: They're
eating real food.
And it wasn't a conversation.
>> Lisa: Yup, it
wasn't a conversation.
All right.
So, you have done the same
thing with kitchens all
around the place where you
have these food kitchens.
What are they and we have a
picture here of one of your--
>> McCormick: Yeah,
they're community kitchens.
>> Lisa: OK
>> McCormick: I-- when
I was getting well
and I was still very
sick, that 89-pound girl.
I had a moment where I
thought, oh wow, I don't want
to tell people what to do.
I'm going to show
them what I do.
>> Lisa: Yeah
>> McCormick: Because
if you tell people,
then you're pointing a
finger and no one listens.
But I thought if I just go in
to my community in Nashville
and I set up shop, let
me show some people.
So, I went into a
food desert just
like the neighborhood I grew
up in predominantly
African-American.
And I connected with the
church and I went in.
And I would stand there at
89 pounds and I'm bragging
about myself because
I'm proud of that girl.
And I would stand there and
I would make tofu, schnitzel,
and anything I could come up
with that I could try to make.
And I would cook for 40 and 50
people for a dollar a person.
And then eventually the
congregation would come
in people started helping me.
And then people in the city
of Nashville heard about me.
And they would come and I was
cooking on the morning show
and I'd stand and cook.
And I'd talk to these
kids and the families.
And I go out in the street
and round up people to eat
because they don't have any
food when they're hungry.
They couldn't just get
a free meal they had
to learn to cook it.
>> Lisa: They did,
God, its beautiful.
Take a look at this
video because it shows--
>> McCormick: Oh
no, no, what is it?
>> Lisa: -- Mee McCormick
in action, take a look.
[ Music ]
>> This is Steven
Thomason [assumed spelling]
and this is his wife Jane
Allen [assumed spelling],
his little boy Evan
[assumed spelling],
Ms. Bailey [assumed spelling]
and his son Spencer
[assumed spelling] is here.
Mr. Steven in December, type
2 diabetes, heart disease
or well you can talk
about however you want.
And his body was
basically shutting down
and he spent Christmas in
the hospital at Vanderbilt.
And Steven I want you to
tell them, how are you doing?
What happened since we
started in December?
>> Steven: This right here,
I didn't figure it make--
I knew it make a difference.
But not as much as it has.
And I was a big sweet pea
making potatoes at every meal.
>> McCormick: Sweet
pea is his enemy.
>> Steven: Candy bars.
>> McCormick: Candy
bar-- no Honey bun.
Say good bye to Honey
buns, Twinkies, Nutty Bars.
We're going to fill our
bodies with real food.
So, when we're hungry, our
goal is to get something
out of the refrigerator that's
either fresh or the left
over food that we
cooked that's healthy.
>> Steve: I thought it's
one of the hardest things
that I was going to do until
I made the choice to do it.
And with the help of
family support, gosh,
it might has been one
of the easiest transitions
I've ever done.
I was dreaded and [inaudible]
like a needle when you go
to doctor's office, you
just dreaded, dreaded is not
as bad you go ahead
and buck up and do it.
But it has made the world a
difference and the way I feel.
Lost a little bit of
weight about 40, 45 pounds.
[ Laughter ]
>> Jane Allen: But
it's also left off
that he's off his
diabetic medicine.
His off his cholesterol
and high blood pressure.
So, just the benefits of
that being out of his body is
so huge that, you know, it
can't be anything but good.
[ Music ]
>> Lisa: So, you made a
huge difference in his life.
So, how did he impact the room?
>> McCormick: He
just shared a story
and his story is just gigantic.
I mean, you know, diabetes,
heart disease, 45 pounds
and he changed his life.
He came to me after being in the
hospital and he said Ms. Mee,
that's they call me on the farm.
"Ms. Mee, I'm ready
to change my life.
What do I got to do?"
>> Lisa: And what
about his little boy?
How was his little boy?
>> McCormick: All
of them are great.
I mean they're amazing,
his 15 year old daughter
by the way Ms. Bailey cooked
for her father everyday and runs
that kitchen and
this is how they eat
and this is how they cook.
They have four children
and a grand baby.
And they cook like
this everyday.
And her and her sister Samantha
cooked him into wellness.
And that was Christmas,
he was in the hospital
on Christmas Eve
and Christmas day.
And I got the text that
he was off medicines
from his doctor on
February 28th.
>> Lisa: Wow.
>> McCormick: In two months,
all meds gone and lost
within three months lost 45,
50 pounds by June,
he was like down.
That was in June and it
all started in December.
>> Lisa: So, anyone can do this?
Absolutely.
>> McCormick: A 15 year old
who lives on a farm and goes
to school in a Holler
in Tennessee.
You know, this is
not an uppity thing.
This is not an elides thing,
this is not a bushwa thing.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> McCormick: This is
old school cooking for
and cooking with a purpose.
>> Lisa: Yeah, absolutely
for health.
>> McCormick: This
is the new gourmet.
>> Lisa: Well, that's why you
call these people food angels,
right?
>> McCormick: Yeah,
they're my food angels.
>> Lisa: What's the food angel?
>> McCormick: So, once I
started the community kitchen,
people started coming in
from around Nashville.
And they would show up and
they say, "I want to cook,
I want to cook, I want
to learn and I'll help."
And then now I have about 20
maybe 25 people in the city
of Nashville that I'll cook this
way, know how to cook this way.
And here in LA I have a group
of people that have been cooking
with me when I'm here.
And they all cook this
way, they all eat this way,
they learn new ways of cooking.
>> Lisa: They share recipes.
>> McCormick: We
all come together
and we run our community
kitchens
and they run each table.
And they are now
leaders in the community.
So, a food angel it's a pay
it forward person who goes
into the community and
then teaches others.
>> Lisa: Teachers others how to
do it and then feeds people--
>> McCormick: And feeds people,
yeah, we're feeding people.
Instead of just giving people
canned goods in a food bank,
why don't we set up
community kitchens
and teach people how
to feed themselves?
>> Lisa: That is amazing.
>> McCormick: Yeah.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
You have this great
picture here of this--
of one of your food angels.
>> McCormick: Oh, yeah.
>> Lisa: And this
incredible dish, what is that?
>> McCormick: Those are, first
of all one of those food angels
in that shot is my sister.
>> Lisa: Oh.
>> McCormick: Yeah,
praise goodness.
That is my sister
which is amazing
because we couldn't
help our mama.
But we help each other.
And she now teaches in Nashville
and runs community kitchens.
And runs that works on the farm.
And the other woman is Ms.
Jenny Mendel [assumed spelling]
who is-- has been
our farm manager.
And those are sweet potatoes,
turnips everything that came
out root vegetables,
parsley on them,
olive oil, put them in the oven.
Nothing is complicated.
>> Lisa: Everything that
comes out of your farm.
>> McCormick: We eat everything.
>> Lisa: Which I want to
talk about that first.
I'm really glad that you've
shared the story with us
because of course the national
news has got your attention.
And you've have been on various
different cooking segments.
We could see a couple of
you here, you in action.
>> McCormick: Oh yeah.
>> Lisa: That's important
and I think they need
to do huge stories
on people like you.
>> McCormick: Yeah, I've
been a reoccurring cook
on the Fox Nashville
Show [assumed spelling]
and the [inaudible]
now for four years.
>> Lisa: Oh great.
>> McCormick: And I just--
yeah, and I've been cooking all
over the country because my goal
is to create community kitchens
in 18 cities across the country.
>> Lisa: You have a huge vision
and we support you absolutely.
>> McCormick: Yeah girl.
>> Lisa: So, all right,
tell me a little bit
about your farm in Nashville.
And how you leave there?
And the seasonal vegetables
and how you do this?
>> McCormick: Well we--
my husband has had the farm
as a working grass-fed
cattle ranch for 20 years.
And he comes from a big
family, a big food family.
His family-- his mother's--
his step father's family
started Winn-Dixie.
And so, that was the first chain
of grocery stores in
the United States.
>> Lisa: Wow.
>> McCormick: So, this
we are a food family.
>> Lisa: Wow.
>> McCormick: And what we've
done is changed, you know,
the relationship with food.
And so, the farm is a
grass-fed cattle ranch.
We raise sheep hogs,
quarter horses.
We have over thousand
cows at a time.
>> Lisa: So, your husband wasn't
the meat and potatoes guy?
>> McCormick: He was a
mega meat and potatoes guy.
>> Lisa: He was.
>> McCormick: But he
watched me get well.
And he sat and he
ate my [inaudible].
He was like, "Oh, it's good,"
'cause is always terrible.
And that's what people
need to know.
You start out and it's terrible
and it gets better
and you get better.
>> Lisa: OK.
>> McCormick: And in through it,
you gain this incredible
confidence.
You know, so yeah, it's a farm
and then we started the
biodynamic produce aspect
of the gardens.
We call it the gardens,
but it's like 10 acres.
And it's growing everyday and
the ranch is thousands of acres.
It's a massive ranch.
So, every year we add more
acreage to the produce.
And we started it for
my community kitchens
because I couldn't find
anybody to donate the food.
>> Lisa: I was going to ask you,
yeah, how do you support those?
>> McCormick: Well, the
community kitchens I cook
for 40-- anywhere between 40 to
50 people upwards off 150 people
for a dollar a person.
>> Lisa: Oh my goodness.
>> McCormick: And that's
because I've got cooking skills.
>> Lisa: And do people
donate as they come or--
>> McCormick: I had
funded the whole thing
for the first few years.
>> Lisa: That's amazing.
>> McCormick: And then
we started the gardens
and we provide whatever we have
in the garden we cook with.
And then through donation
now people just drop a dollar
on the bucket.
>> Lisa: That's great.
>> McCormick: And
we figure it out,
I mean that's how I
ate as a kid, right?
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> McCormick: Your mama cooked
for everybody whenever she had.
>> Lisa: Yeah, yeah.
>> McCormick: She
didn't turn people away.
>> Lisa: That's when
we have communities.
And, all right, so you Meeafy
[assumed spelling] food.
>> McCormick: I Meeafy food.
>> Lisa: These are Meeafied
[assumed spelling] food.
I have here a picture
of how you Meeafy--
what is Meeafying
[assumed spelling] a dish?
So, you take your typical--
>> McCormick: So, I started
out in a rigid way of cooking
in a very healthy holistic way.
And then I did a
professional culinary program
in French-American
Classic Cuisine.
And I did it, I win in under the
radar, no one knew who I was.
I didn't tell anybody I
knew how to cook except
for this one woman who was
like, she has watched me chop.
And she was like what
are you doing here?
And I said, "Oh, I want to cook.
I just want to cook better.
And she-- you know, chefs
can be a little uppity.
If they think you think
you know anything,
they don't like you at all.
And so, I was like nothing,
I'm just going to cook better,
she was like, I think
you're a spy and I was.
And I would just sit there and
I would take everything she said
and everything we learned
and I would go home.
And I would Meeafy it, I
would change the fat content.
If ever it required dairy and a
cream sauce, I would find a way
to make a bechamel sauce
with a nut milk or--
and I really learn
how to change things.
And if it was gluten-free
I would figure out how
to combine the grains and the
flowers so that it would have
that type of texture
and not be too sweet.
>> Lisa: Right.
>> McCormick: I would
change-- if we made meatloaf,
just throwing that in there.
We didn't really make meatloaf.
But what I would so is I
would add sea vegetables
to it and almond meal.
And I would just try to boost
it, try to make it as good-free
as you can with an old
school recipe, and shift it
so that everyone can eat it.
>> Lisa: And that's
what the cook book is.
>> McCormick: That's what it is.
>> Lisa: It's Meeafying things.
>> McCormick: I just
Meeafied it all.
I just-- I'll go, "Oh
really, I can do that."
Well you did, here's
a great recipe here
that I'm sure this-- oh.
I can't tell you the last time
I've ever had chicken pot pie
because everything in life--
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> McCormick: I'm
completely allergic to.
>> Lisa: Right, you can have it,
you can have chicken
pot pie anymore.
>> McCormick: We can.
>> Lisa: OK
>> McCormick: And my sister
and I actually this
is a great example
of what we do in my farm.
So, we pull from the garden
and we also have chickens
so I have my own chickens.
So, we-- let's make
chicken pot pie.
So, she went and made the rolled
out old school go from wheat
and then I made my version.
And I added hijiki sea weed.
I added-- I use the
kudzu to thicken it.
So, it was going to
support the digestive track
because you have cheese
starch to thicken it.
And then my crust is
an almond meal crust.
So, I took almond meal
and I added green
onions and fresh parsley.
And I put it all into food
processes and I crumbled it
and I made in a skillet.
>> Lisa: Oh, iron skillet, yeah.
>> McCormick: And then the top
layer is this yummy crumble.
And it turned out everybody
on the farm loved it,
because we do farm Fridays.
Cowboy luncheons and we
feed everybody on the farm.
>> Lisa: Can I come
live with you?
>> McCormick: Yeah, come on.
>> Lisa: You can have
such a good time.
>> McCormick: I do and
we have a lot of funny.
That's a thing about the South.
People are funny.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> McCormick: We-- we're
not afraid to be silly
and we're not afraid to fail.
>> Lisa: Oh, I've seen
some of your videos.
And you crack me up, your
YouTube channel is hilarious.
>> McCormick: Hilarious.
>> Lisa: It's chasing
cows and singing, its fun.
All right.
So, here's another example
of your vegan creamy
tomato vodka sauce
which is a lot of words.
>> McCormick: Oh yeah, well,
how is it being about being
in that class of program
the chef keep telling me,
no you can change it,
you can change it.
>> Lisa: Right.
>> McCormick: You-- it
doesn't work and I would say,
well could I, could
I-- so, then I just had
to prove it wrong
in my own kitchen.
And this I thought I
missed cream of tomato soup.
See, I was a processed food
person, I wanted a pot pie,
I wanted the creamy
tomato Campbell soup
and so with cheese.
>> Lisa: Integral cheese.
>> McCormick: Integral cheese
and so I wanted the
whole comfort thing.
And so, what I did to this
is its tomatoes, its water,
its garlic, its onion.
You can have basil if you want.
>> Lisa: OK.
>> McCormick: And then the miso
makes it cheesy and creamy.
And then you can add a
little nutritional yeast
to take it another level.
>> Lisa: That's not hard.
>> McCormick: And then I
put rice in it or millet
or quinoa to-- while you cook
it all before you puree it
which makes it thick.
So, that's how you
make a creamy soup
without dairy you add a grain.
And if you're not doing a
grain then you can add tofu
if you want to and
then you puree it all.
>> Lisa: Puree it.
>> McCormick: So, I
usually add and you--
if you're watching your
carbohydrate grains
like you're diabetic
you use millet.
Millet is the best
grain for diabetics.
>> Lisa: Wow, you're really
put a lot of this together.
So, this is all in the book--
>> McCormick: All in the book.
>> Lisa: A wonderful
picture of the cute--
you have a great
graphic artist which is--
>> McCormick: Oh yeah, Ted
raised in San Francisco.
>> Lisa: It's a lot of fun.
All right so we're going to
take a look here at this video.
We're going to take
a look at your farm.
>> McCormick: All right.
[ Music ]
Learning to cook food was
one thing but learning how
to grow food so it supported
the body was another thing.
It's not just about what's in
the food and in the recipes.
It's what-- how the food is
grown and what's in the soil?
And what's in the water.
And so, this is an
ancestral farm.
We've taken the way we
farm all the way back.
This is a new age,
this is old school.
This is the way we
use to grow food.
So, our soil has
lots of bugs in it
because we don't want
to kill the bugs.
We want the bugs.
The bugs are getting me.
Because bugs in your soil means
healthy soil and it's alive.
And you want to eat
food that's alive.
We the way that we
plant our food here is
in unison with the seasons.
Because when food is grown and
it's right time and it's eaten
in its right time then
the body benefits.
And our bodies eating
seasonally is the ticket.
So, we pick and we grow food
and we sell it in market
and we sell it seasonally.
And it teaches you
to cook better
because you're always
inspired as the seasons change.
It shifts the way you eat and
you have a whole new menu plan
with what's grown in here.
We'll use any pesticides,
we don't use any herbicides
and we don't-- and
we use organic seeds.
So, we're not genetically
modified we're real food going
on here.
[Background Music] Welcome
to live in a real food life.
So, you know, you're not
supposed to have guest in here.
After you eat, if you eat
refresh food all the time you're
going to eliminate the gap.
So, you eat this it
all comes out like.
You eat this and it's, but
this a smooth shidoobee.
[ Noise ]
>> Lisa: You're funny.
>> McCormick: Everyone is
too serious about it all.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
Oh, we have to do this.
Well, we have to get well.
>> McCormick: Yeah, we have
to get well but do I have
to suffer while I'm
getting well?
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> McCormick: Am I
shedding myself or anything?
>> Lisa: No.
Well, what you did
is you made if fun
and you brought in
your personality.
And you've healed your
relationship with food
and emotionally and also
you've taught us how to cook
in a different way
which is surely fun.
>> McCormick: Yeah.
>> Lisa: So, what
about your farm though?
Is it, it's all natural seeds--
>> McCormick: All natural,
we're heirloom seeds,
we don't use chemicals
and pesticides.
We farm old school style.
We weed by hand, we get
on our hands and knees
when the sweet potatoes come in
and you push those
potatoes out of the dirt.
I mean I work on that farm.
Everybody works but it's noble.
And, you know, we've lost,
when we lost our relationship
with our food where it
comes from and what it does
in the body we lost a
piece of our nobility.
And farming is a very noble job.
And I'm honored to be a farmer.
And I love, you know, we don't
want to be blue collar anymore.
But that there, but that there's
a lot of honor in working hard.
>> Lisa: Well, now we go
to supermarkets and
we try to shop--
>> McCormick: Yeah.
>> Lisa: -- on the perimeter
>> Lisa: -- and we--
>> McCormick: Yeah.
And, you know, I feel like for
kids they grow up on farms,
they really have
a sense of honor
because they are participating.
And they are bringing
it all together.
And so, I mean the people
on my farm are the most
important people in my live.
>> Lisa: But most of these
have little plots of thing
of like balconies to grow
things on these days.
>> McCormick: Yeah.
>> Lisa: So, we rely on
farmer's market since over--
>> McCormick: Which is we
rely on market's markets.
Go to those farmer's
markets, support those people.
I think I had a moment this
summer it was a 105 degrees.
It was the end of July,
the thickest summer.
And I looked out and
all the people work
on our farm everybody
was beat and hot.
And you work 12 hour a days.
And I watched the
people and myself
and my husband and
my children work.
My daughter moves
850 cows on a horse.
And my kids pick--
>> Lisa: She's 10
>> McCormick: She's
10, my six year old is
out there picking and planting.
And we were all beat down and
I wanted to stand up on top
of the mountain and
yell at everybody.
Do you know about your farmers?
Do you know what they do for
you and how they support you.
So, I go to farmer's
markets and just want
to hug and kiss everyone.
>> Lisa: You area
adorable and so great--
>> McCormick: Thank you.
>> Lisa: And one
of the inspiration
and a leader in this movement.
And you're creating
your own movement--
>> McCormick: Yeah.
>> Lisa: More community
kitchens, that's great.
Mee McCormick is my guest.
And thank you so much--
>> McCormick: Thank you.
>> Lisa: -- for being here.
>> McCormick: Thank
you, I love being here.
>> Lisa: Yeah, it was fun.
>> McCormick: It was really fun.
>> Lisa: And if you want to
watch a replay of my interview
with Mee McCormick or
share it with your friends.
Please do by going to
gaiamtv.com and until next time.
I invite to stay inspired.
[ Music ]